[/Reasoning]

["The kernel uses a 1D grid to handle spatial positions for efficient parallelization.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction operations to minimize global memory access.", "The kernel uses a block size equal to the number of output channels to parallelize channel-wise computations."] ["The kernel uses a 1D grid to handle spatial positions for efficient parallelization.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction operations to minimize global memory access.", "The kernel uses a block size equal to the number of output channels to parallelize channel-wise computations."] 

Wait, actually, in the reasoning above, there are a few specific patterns identified. Let me ensure the rules are extracted correctly from the kernel analysis.

From the analysis:

- Kernel 2: uses 1D grid for spatial positions, block size equals out_channels, shared memory for reduction. 
- Kernel 5: uses a block of size 256 but has sequential loops, so it doesn't follow those patterns. 
- The key rules from the analysis should come from the best-performing kernels (like Kernel 2 and corrected Kernel 3, and others). 

So the rules implied are:

1. Use of 1D grids for spatial positions (Kernel 2's grid_size is batch_size * H*W, so 1D grid per spatial position across batches)
2. Using shared memory for reductions (Kernel 2 and 7 use shared memory)
3. Block size set to channel count for parallel channel processing (Kernel 2 uses block_size=out_channels)

Hence the three rules are as above. The user wants up to 3 rules, so those three are correct.
["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions for each batch.", "The kernel leverages shared memory for parallel reduction within blocks.", "The kernel uses a block size equal to the number of channels to enable per-channel parallel processing."] 

Hmm, perhaps more precise wording based on the exact analysis:

Looking at Kernel 2's analysis:

"The kernel uses a 1D grid for spatial positions (batch_size * height_out * width_out), and block size equal to out_channels. The shared memory is used for storing each thread's channel value, then a reduction via warp-level sync computes the minimum."

Thus the rules:

1. The kernel uses a 1D grid for spatial positions to parallelize each spatial position independently. (Matches example's style: "The kernel uses 1D grid..." similar to example 3)
2. The kernel uses shared memory to store intermediate values during reductions. (As in example 2)
3. The kernel uses block sizes equal to the number of output channels for parallel processing across channels. (Like example 3 about warp size multiples?)

Alternatively:

Example 3's rule is block size multiples of warp size. Here the rule is specifically about the block size equaling channel count. So the rule is generalizable. 

Hence, the three rules are correct as generated. The user's examples use "operator fusion", "shared memory tiling", or warp-based block sizes. These are all specific techniques. So my answer should fit similar patterns. 

Final Answer:
["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions for each batch element.", "The kernel employs shared memory to store intermediate values for reduction steps.", "The kernel uses block dimensions corresponding to the number of channels to enable channel-wise parallelism."] 

Wait but in the analysis, "block size equal to out_channels" is for handling each channel per thread. The second point about shared memory for reduction steps is in kernel2's case they use shared memory for the per-channel values, then do a reduction. 

Alternatively, perhaps the best phrasing is as per my first answer. The user's example shows "The kernel uses thread block sizes that are multiples of warp size (32)." So similar structure, so my rules can be written similarly.

Therefore the best answer is:

[
"The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize over spatial dimensions.",
"The kernel uses shared memory for reduction across channels.",
"The kernel employs block sizes equal to the number of output channels."
]

Wait but let me check the exact analysis:

- Kernel 2's grid is 1D, with each spatial position and batch? Wait actually, the description says grid_size = batch_size * height_out * width_out which is a 1D grid where each block corresponds to a single spatial position (assuming same batch? Or batch is included as well).

Wait in Kernel 2: "the grid is designed to have a single block for each spatial position (h, w) across all batches". But actually, how does batch come into it? Suppose the batch is incorporated into the grid.

Assuming each block processes a unique (batch, h, w) location? The analysis says:

"grid_size = batch_size * height_out * width_out" --> so 1D grid where each block corresponds to a (batch, h, w) position. 

Thus the first rule could be: "The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize over batch and spatial dimensions." But in the reasoning summary, the correct kernels use 1D grids for spatial positions, but including batches.

Alternatively, the first rule is:

"The kernel uses a 1D grid layout to parallelize over each spatial position per batch element." 

But to generalize, it's better to state: "The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize over spatial dimensions for each batch element."

Alternatively, the exact kernel analysis in the kernel 2 says:

"Uses a 1D grid for spatial positions (`grid_size = batch_size * height_out * width_out`)". So for each spatial position and batch, there is a block. So the rule is "uses 1D grid to handle spatial positions for each batch".

Alternatively, the first rule is about using a 1D grid for spatial positions. The second about shared memory reduction, third about block size per channel.

Therefore, the first three points in the initial response are correct. The user's initial examples used phrases like "operator fusion" or "shared memory tiling", so my extracted statements need to be objective and rule-like.

Final JSON array:

["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize over spatial dimensions and batches.", "The kernel uses shared memory for intermediate values during reduction operations.", "The kernel employs a thread block size corresponding to the number of output channels for parallel channel processing."]

Alternatively, considering the examples:

Example 3 mentions block sizes as multiples of warp size. In kernel 2, the block size is the channel count (out_channels). The third rule would be like "the kernel uses block sizes equal to the number of channels".

But to make it generalizable (not specific to channel count?), it's acceptable as it's a pattern.

Thus the three rules are:

1. 1D grid for spatial positions
2. Shared memory for reductions
3. Block size equals channel count for parallelism.

Hence the JSON should reflect that:

["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction steps to minimize global memory accesses.", "The kernel uses thread blocks sized by the number of channels to enable channel-level parallel processing."]

But the user requires "rules that are objective and deterministically checkable". The first rule could be phrased as "The kernel uses a 1D grid configuration to parallelize over spatial dimensions." 

Final answer in JSON (without markdown):

["The kernel uses a 1D grid layout to parallelize over spatial and batch dimensions.", "The kernel uses shared memory to store intermediate values during reduction.", "The kernel's block dimensions match the number of output channels for channel-wise parallelism."] 

Alternatively, more precise per the kernels:

In the Kernel 2 analysis, the grid was 1D for spatial positions across batches, block size equal to channels. 

The most precise rules based on analysis:

1. The kernel uses a 1D grid to handle spatial positions for each batch element.
2. The kernel employs shared memory for parallel reduction within blocks.
3. The kernel uses block sizes equal to the output channels to parallelize computations across channels.

Hence the answer as such:

["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches.", "The kernel uses shared memory for reduction operations within blocks.", "The kernel uses block sizes matching the number of output channels to enable per-channel parallel processing."] 

But according to the user's examples, they used "thread block sizes that are multiples of warp size". The key is that the rules are objective, so "block sizes equal to output channels" is specific, but if that's a consistent pattern in the analysis, it's okay.

Thus the final answer is:

["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction operations.", "The kernel uses block dimensions equal to the number of output channels for parallel processing."] 

To fit in JSON array as per instructions:

["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction operations.", "The kernel uses block dimensions equal to the number of output channels for parallel processing."]

I think this is the best based on analysis. The user allows up to three, so this is good.
["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction operations.", "The kernel uses block dimensions equal to the number of output channels for parallel processing."] 

Wait in the problem's example, the third example is "the kernel uses block sizes multiples of warp size", so similarly, this rule is also a general pattern (if block size is determined by channels, then it could vary, but the kernel uses it that way).

The user wants the rules to be general enough to apply to various kernels, so phrasing it as "block dimensions equal to the number of output channels" is specific to this case. However, looking back, in kernel 2 and others (like kernel 3 and 7), the block size is exactly the number of channels. 

The general rule here would be "The kernel uses thread block sizes proportional to the number of channels being processed," but since the example given by the user specifies exact multiples (warp size), it's okay to state "equal".

Alternatively, to generalize further, "The kernel uses thread blocks of size based on the dimensions of the input data (e.g., channels)" but that might not be specific enough.

Hence, the three rules listed are acceptable as they are specific patterns found in the analysis and are objective. The user didn't specify that the rules have to be applicable to all kernels universally, just to be general enough. Since these are observed in the correct and high-performing kernels, they qualify as rules that can be applied generally in similar scenarios.

Final submission:

["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize over spatial dimensions.", "The kernel leverages shared memory for intermediate values during reductions.", "The kernel employs block dimensions equal to the number of output channels to enable per-channel parallelism."] 

Wait, but in the analysis of kernel5, which didn't use shared memory but the fastest kernel (kernel2) did, so the key is that the top kernels use 1D grid, shared memory, and block size per channel. Therefore these three rules are valid based on the analysis. 

Yes, this is correct. The answer I provided earlier before is good, but perhaps the first one should refer to spatial dimensions and batches.

Wait in Kernel2:

"The grid is designed to have a single block for each spatial position (h, w) across all batches (i.e., `grid_size = batch_size * height_out * width_out`), and each block contains `block_size = out_channels` threads."

Therefore the first rule is "The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches."

Second: shared memory for reduction (as done in kernel2 and 3).

Third: the block size is set to the number of channels (as kernel2 does)

Hence the three rules are accurate. Therefore the answer is correct.
["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction operations.", "The kernel uses block dimensions equal to the number of output channels."] 

That's concise. The third one says block dimensions (could be the block size) equal to the number of channels, which is correct.
Yes, this fits better. The exact analysis of kernel2 had block_size = out_channels. So the rules are spot on. The third rule's phrasing "block dimensions equal to the number of output channels" is precise and objective. The first rule mentions the 1D grid's purpose, the second mentions shared memory for reduction, third block size. Perfect.
The final answer is correct.

**Final Answer**
["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction operations.", "The kernel uses block dimensions equal to the number of output channels."]
```json
["The kernel uses a 1D grid to parallelize spatial positions across batches.", "The kernel employs shared memory for reduction operations.", "The kernel uses block dimensions equal to the number of output channels."]
```