
Okay, let's see what the user is asking here. They provided a detailed reasoning process about optimizing a PyTorch model's kernel fusion for batch normalization and scaling. The task is to extract rule-like statements from the analysis that indicate differences between the given solutions, following the examples provided.

First, I need to recall the examples given for rule-like statements. They mentioned things like operator fusion, shared memory tiling, and thread block sizes using warp multiples. These are objective, deterministic rules applicable to various CUDA kernels.

Looking at the analysis provided in the problem, the key points that emerged from the comparison between the third and fifth solutions were:

1. The third solution dynamically uses all parameters, including the epsilon from the batch norm layer. This is crucial because using hardcoded values (like in the fifth solution) would be incorrect if the model's parameters change.

2. The third solution ensures contiguous memory access by calling `.contiguous()`, which is important for efficient CUDA memory access patterns. This wasn't properly handled in the fifth solution, leading to potential performance issues.

These observations can be translated into rule-like statements similar to the examples given. The rules should be general enough to apply broadly to CUDA kernels, not just this specific case.

Rule 1: The kernel dynamically retrieves parameters from the model (e.g., running mean, variance, gamma, beta, and epsilon) to ensure correctness even if the model's parameters change. This ensures the kernel adapts to different configurations without hardcoding values.

Rule 2: The kernel ensures input tensors are contiguous in memory to optimize memory access patterns, improving performance through coalesced reads and writes.

Rule 3: The kernel fuses multiple operations (batch normalization and scaling) into a single CUDA kernel launch to minimize overhead from multiple kernel launches and reduce memory transfers between operations.

These three rules are objective and deterministic, applicable to various CUDA kernels aiming for efficiency and correctness. They highlight key aspects from the analysis provided and fit the examples given.
</think>

[
  "The kernel dynamically retrieves all parameters (running_mean, running_var, gamma, beta, and epsilon) from the model for computation.",
  "The kernel ensures input tensors are contiguous in memory to optimize CUDA memory access patterns.",
  "The kernel fuses batch normalization and scaling operations into a single CUDA kernel launch to reduce overhead."
]